Add a maintenance process (#116)
ossf/security-baseline: docs/maintenance.md

At least two project maintainers must review and approve these changes.
* Substantive changes to Criteria, including changes to text that alters the originally stated meaning, new Criteria proposals, or removal of Criteria will be documented in GitHub PR(s) and reviewed regularly by the Baseline project maintainers.
These changes may reflect changes to global cybersecurity regulations and frameworks or changes in norms around application/project security practices.
Any such substantive changes must be approved by a majority of the project's maintainers.
* As appropriate, but at least annually, the Baseline project maintainers will publish a new version of the Baseline.
Previous versions of the Baseline will remain avialable, but are not maintained.
* Any changes to the Baseline will be reflected within the Compliance Matrix, with new requirements flagged where the Baseline Criteria are appropriate.
* Downstream stakeholders will be notified via the project's mailing list on the changes and updates.

> ## Identifiers

Reviewer: Should this be more specific?
```suggestion
## Retiring Identifiers for Deprecated Criteria
```

Reviewer 2: I think this applies to all identifiers, not just deprecated ones.  Without a crystal ball, we don't know which identifiers will be deprecated in the future.

Author: Evan is correct. This is about how identifiers are governed generally (although it is largely driven by discussions around retirement).

Reviewer 2: It's about identifier governance in general, because it also covers when and how identifiers can be adjusted between versions (the identifier should "mean" the same thing in the future, so that a tool or document that says `Addresses OSPS-XY-46` without explicitly specifying a baseline version is not ambiguous in the future).

I don't know if it's worth explaining that philosophy in this document or not.  I tend to like to see the "why" behind rules, but some people find it distracting.

> * Identifiers for retired criteria will not be used.

Reviewer: Let's make explicit the sunsetting process:

```suggestion
* Identifiers for retired criteria MUST be marked in the OSPS baseline markup as deprecated and never reused in future revisions.
```

Author: Makes sense. I'll update with some minor revisions to your wording.

> * Identifiers for retired criteria will not be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Identifiers for retired criteria MUST NOT be reused.  A list of these retired identifiers will be maintained in (file that contains at least OSPS-AC-06 and OSPS-BR-07)
```

Author: I like the idea of keeping them in the yaml with a `retired: <BOOLEAN>` entry, which is what I think puerco's comment hinted at.

Reviewer 2: If you want to keep a single file across versions (I think you're gonna regret it, but maybe I'll learn something), you might want `retired: $VERSION` rather than a boolean.

Reviewer 2: Ah, you'll just check in the file as of a certain point, so then you use text-diff to find the changes over time.  I think that will probably be workable with tools like `blame`.

Author: Good point on `retired: $VERSION`. `git blame` would give the same info, but this would be friendlier.

* Substantial changes to the meaning of a criterion will be treated as a new criterion, resulting in a new identifier.

> Minor changes, including a change in level, between Baseline versions will not result in a new identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Minor changes, including a change in level between Baseline versions will not result in a new identifier.
```

Author: The second comma is correct because it sets apart "including a change in level" as a separate clause. Removing that clause, you're left with "Minor changes between Baseline versions will not result in a new identifier."

* The numeric portion of identifiers are assigned sequentially per category.

> They do not carry additional meaning.

Reviewer: I'm fine having these here for now to keep things moving, but the identifier structure, codes and overall sematics built into the string should be explained in a doc by itself.

Reviewer 2: The point here is, I think, to address [my comment in Slack](https://openssf.slack.com/archives/C07DC6TT2QY/p1734544647124109?thread_ts=1734542444.669299&cid=C07DC6TT2QY)

> So, looking at the series starting with "OSPS-AC-01" through "OSPS-AC-07", AC-01 through AC-04 are all maturity level 1, AC-05 is level 2, and AC-07 is level 3.  If we find a new OSPS-AC that is maturity level 1, what number does it get?

This is probably simply due to historical accident, but it's easy for someone new to come in and see a pattern which is not intentional and cause a mess.

Author: Agreed. That's in the README right now. My intent was to pull it into the index page eventually as we settle on the general shape of this. I'd also be fine putting it in this doc or separate. I think my preference in descending order is:

1. Put the explanation in index.md
2. Put the explanation in maintenance.md
3. Put the explanation in a separate file
4. Leave it in the README for people to find if they go looking for it.

# OSPS Baseline Maintenance Process

* Normal text fixes to the criteria will be accepted via pull request and reviewed by the baseline project maintainers.
Allowed changes are corrections to spelling/typos, grammar corrections, or enhancements to the supplementary text supporting the criteria, including: Objective, Implementation, Control Mappings, and Scorecard/Insights values.
At least two project maintainers must review and approve these changes.

> * Substantive changes to Criteria, including changes to text that alters the originally stated meaning, new Criteria proposals, or removal of Criteria will be documented in GitHub PR(s) and reviewed regularly by the Baseline project maintainers.

Author: Good call, I'll update this slightly.

These changes may reflect changes to global cybersecurity regulations and frameworks or changes in norms around application/project security practices.
Any such substantive changes must be approved by a majority of the project's maintainers.
* As appropriate, but at least annually, the Baseline project maintainers will evaluate the set of criteria and, if necessary, publish a new version of the Baseline.

> Previous versions of the Baseline will remain avialable, but are not maintained.

Author: Oh yes, that is _much_ better wording.

* Any changes to the Baseline will be reflected within the Compliance Matrix, with new requirements flagged where the Baseline Criteria are appropriate.
* Versions will follow a calendar-based identification system, using the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
* Downstream stakeholders will be notified via the project's mailing list on the changes and updates.

## Identifiers

* Identifiers for retired criteria MUST NOT be reused.
Retired identifiers will remain in the source yaml files, clearly marked.
* Substantial changes to the meaning of a criterion will be treated as a new criterion, resulting in a new identifier.
Minor changes, including a change in level, between Baseline versions will not result in a new identifier.
* The numeric portion of identifiers are assigned sequentially per category.

> They do not carry additional meaning.

Reviewer 3: @SecurityCRob can you suggest a rephrase here to make it fit with your proposed three digit change? (ie, the levels DO carry additional meaning)

Author: Are we fully set on the three digit change? The notes from last week say "try doing this with one category, and look at it." (although Crob has done all of the categories) and I, at least, am still not sold on the idea.

In the interests of getting this actually done, let's assume for now that the numbers aren't changing and we can update this if/when they do.

Reviewer 2: How about this:

```suggestion
* The numeric portion of identifiers are assigned sequentially per category and level.
Within a level (i.e. 201, 202, etc), numbers do not carry a meaning, but should not be re-used across versions.
Moving a criteria between levels will (intentionally) result in assigning a new number, to allow tracking changes to levels over time.
```

Any such substantive changes must be approved by a majority of the project's maintainers.
* As appropriate, but at least annually, the Baseline project maintainers will evaluate the set of criteria and, if necessary, publish a new version of the Baseline.
Previous versions of the Baseline will remain available, but are stable and not subject to change, except for minor changes to fix technical or typographic errors.
* Any changes to the Baseline will be reflected within the Compliance Matrix, with new requirements flagged where the Baseline Criteria are appropriate.
* Versions will follow a calendar-based identification system, using the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
* Downstream stakeholders will be notified via the project's mailing list on the changes and updates.

## Identifiers

* Identifiers for retired criteria MUST NOT be reused.
Retired identifiers will remain in the source yaml files, clearly marked.
* Substantial changes to the meaning of a criterion will be treated as a new criterion, resulting in a new identifier.
Minor changes, including a change in level, between Baseline versions will not result in a new identifier.

> * The numeric portion of identifiers are assigned sequentially per category and level.
> Within a category and level, identifiers do not carry additional meaning.
> Moving a criterion between levels will (intentionally) result in assigning a new number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The numeric portion of identifiers are assigned sequentially per category.
Within a category, identifiers do not carry additional meaning.
```

Changing per the outcome of #175
